# AMR Logistic Regression Analysis

Performs logistic regression to analyze the relationship between genetic
markers and phenotype (R, and NWT) for a specified antibiotic.

## Usage

``` r
amr_logistic(
  geno_table,
  pheno_table,
  antibiotic = NULL,
  drug_class_list = NULL,
  geno_sample_col = NULL,
  pheno_sample_col = NULL,
  sir_col = "pheno",
  ecoff_col = "ecoff",
  marker_col = "marker.label",
  binary_matrix = NULL,
  maf = 10,
  fit_glm = FALSE,
  single_plot = TRUE,
  colors = c("maroon", "blue4"),
  axis_label_size = 9
)
```

## Arguments

- geno_table:

  (Required if `binary_matrix` not provided) A data frame containing
  genotype data, formatted with
  [`import_amrfp()`](https://AMRverse.github.io/AMRgen/reference/import_amrfp.md).
  Only used if `binary_matrix` not provided.

- pheno_table:

  (Required if `binary_matrix` not provided) A data frame containing
  phenotype data, formatted with
  [`import_ast()`](https://AMRverse.github.io/AMRgen/reference/import_ast.md).
  Only used if `binary_matrix` not provided.

- antibiotic:

  (Required if `binary_matrix` not provided) A character string
  specifying the antibiotic of interest to filter phenotype data. The
  value must match one of the entries in the `drug_agent` column of
  `pheno_table`. Only used if `binary_matrix` not provided or if
  breakpoints required.

- drug_class_list:

  (Required if `binary_matrix` not provided) A character vector of drug
  classes to filter genotype data for markers related to the specified
  antibiotic. Markers in `geno_table` will be filtered based on whether
  their `drug_class` matches any value in this list. Only used if
  `binary_matrix` not provided.

- geno_sample_col:

  A character string (optional) specifying the column name in
  `geno_table` containing sample identifiers. Defaults to `NULL`, in
  which case it is assumed the first column contains identifiers. Only
  used if `binary_matrix` not provided.

- pheno_sample_col:

  A character string (optional) specifying the column name in
  `pheno_table` containing sample identifiers. Defaults to `NULL`, in
  which case it is assumed the first column contains identifiers. Only
  used if `binary_matrix` not provided.

- sir_col:

  A character string specifying the column name in `pheno_table` that
  contains the resistance interpretation (SIR) data. The values should
  be `"S"`, `"I"`, `"R"` or otherwise interpretable by
  [`AMR::as.sir()`](https://amr-for-r.org/reference/as.sir.html). If not
  provided, the first column prefixed with "phenotype\*" will be used if
  present, otherwise an error is thrown. Only used if `binary_matrix`
  not provided.

- ecoff_col:

  A character string specifying the column name in `pheno_table` that
  contains resistance interpretations (SIR) made against the ECOFF
  rather than a clinical breakpoint. The values should be `"S"`, `"I"`,
  `"R"` or otherwise interpretable by
  [`AMR::as.sir()`](https://amr-for-r.org/reference/as.sir.html).
  Default `ecoff`. Set to `NULL` if not available. Only used if
  `binary_matrix` not provided.

- marker_col:

  (Optional) Name of the column containing the marker identifiers, whose
  unique values will be treated as predictors in the regression.
  Defaults to `"marker"`.

- binary_matrix:

  A data frame containing the original binary matrix output from the
  [`get_binary_matrix()`](https://AMRverse.github.io/AMRgen/reference/get_binary_matrix.md)
  function. If not provided (or set to `NULL`), user must specify
  `geno_table`, `pheno_table`, `antibiotic`, `drug_class_list` and
  optionally `geno_sample_col`, `pheno_sample_col`, `sir_col`,
  `ecoff_col`, `marker_col` to pass to
  [`get_binary_matrix()`](https://AMRverse.github.io/AMRgen/reference/get_binary_matrix.md).

- maf:

  (Optional) An integer specifying the minimum allele frequency (MAF)
  threshold. Markers with a MAF lower than this value will be excluded.
  Defaults to `10`.

- fit_glm:

  (Optional) Change to `TRUE` to fit model with glm. Otherwise fit model
  with logistf (default `FALSE`).

- single_plot:

  (Optional) A logical value. If `TRUE`, a single plot is produced
  comparing the estimates for resistance (`R`) and non-resistance
  (`NWT`). Otherwise, two plots are printed side-by-side. Defaults to
  `TRUE`.

- colors:

  (Optional) A vector of two colors, to use for R and NWT models in the
  plots. Defaults to `c("maroon", "blue4")`.

- axis_label_size:

  (Optional) A numeric value controlling the size of axis labels in the
  plot. Defaults to `9`.

## Value

A list with the following components:

- `binary_matrix`: The binary matrix of genetic data and phenotypic
  resistance information (either provided as input or generated by the
  function).

- `modelR`: The fitted logistic regression model summary for resistance
  (`R`).

- `modelNWT`: The fitted logistic regression model summary for
  non-resistance (`NWT`).

- `raw_modelR`: The raw `logistf` or `glm` model object for resistance
  (`R`), suitable for use with
  [`predict()`](https://rdrr.io/r/stats/predict.html).

- `raw_modelNWT`: The raw `logistf` or `glm` model object for
  non-resistance (`NWT`), suitable for use with
  [`predict()`](https://rdrr.io/r/stats/predict.html).

- `plot`: A ggplot object comparing the estimates for resistance and
  non-resistance with corresponding statistical significance indicators.

## Examples

``` r
# Example usage of the amr_logistic function
result <- amr_logistic(
  geno_table = import_amrfp(ecoli_geno_raw, "Name"),
  pheno_table = ecoli_ast,
  sir_col = "pheno_clsi",
  antibiotic = "Ciprofloxacin",
  drug_class_list = c("Quinolones"),
  maf = 10
)
#> Generating geno-pheno binary matrix
#>  Defining NWT in binary matrix using ecoff column provided: ecoff 
#> ...Fitting logistic regression model to R using logistf
#>    Filtered data contains 3629 samples (793 => 1, 2836 => 0) and 19 variables.
#> Warning: logistf.fit: Maximum number of iterations for full model exceeded. Try to increase the number of iterations or alter step size by passing 'logistf.control(maxit=..., maxstep=...)' to parameter control
#> ...Fitting logistic regression model to NWT using logistf
#>    Filtered data contains 3576 samples (875 => 1, 2701 => 0) and 19 variables.
#> Warning: logistf.fit: Maximum number of iterations for full model exceeded. Try to increase the number of iterations or alter step size by passing 'logistf.control(maxit=..., maxstep=...)' to parameter control
#> Generating plots
#> Plotting 2 models

# To access the plot:
print(result$plot)
```
